What is the difference between the compile, build, rebuild, clean, and run/start options in my IDE?

In lesson [0.5 -- Introduction to the compiler, linker, and libraries](https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/introduction-to-the-compiler-linker-and-libraries/), we showed that to produce an executable that can be run, each code file in a program is compiled into an object file, and then the object files are linked into an executable.

When a code file is compiled, your IDE may cache (save) the resulting object file on disk. A **cache** (pronounced like “cash”) is storage location where frequently accessed data is stored for fast retrieval later. That way, if the program is compiled again in the future, any code file that hasn’t been modified doesn’t need to be recompiled -- the cached object file from last time can be reused (rather than having to be regenerated). This can speed up compilation times significantly (at the cost of a little bit of disk space).

With that in mind, here’s what each of the options typically does:

- **Build** compiles all _modified_ code files in the project or workspace/solution, and then links the object files into an executable. If no code files have been modified since the last build, this option does nothing.
- **Clean** removes all cached objects and executables so the next time the project is built, all files will be recompiled and a new executable produced.
- **Rebuild** does a “clean”, followed by a “build”.
- **Compile** recompiles a single code file (regardless of whether it has been cached previously). This option does not invoke the linker or produce an executable.
- **Run/start** executes the executable from a prior build. Some IDEs (e.g. Visual Studio) will invoke a “build” before doing a “run” to ensure you are running the latest version of your code. Otherwise (e.g. Code::Blocks) will just execute the prior executable.