The input/output library is part of    C++   standard library  that  deals with basic input and output . We will used basic functionality to  get input from the key broad and output to the console . the io part of the iostream stand for input and output 

To used the functionality of the iostream library we will have a header on top of any code file  that uses the content defined in the iostream  
```
#include <iostream>

// rest of code that uses iostream functionality here
```
## std::count  
The iostream variable  contains a few predefined variable for us to use . One of the most useful is std::count ,which  allow us to send variable to  the console to output as output text 

```
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello world!"; // print Hello world! to console

    return 0;
}
```
In this program, we have included _iostream_ so that we have access to _std::cout_. Inside our _main_ function, we use _std::cout_, along with the **insertion operator (`<<`)**, to send the text _Hello world!_ to the console to be printed.

_std::cout_ can not only print text, it can also print numbers:

```
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    std::cout << 4; // print 4 to console

    return 0;
}
```

This produces the result:

It can also be used to print the value of variables:
```
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    int x{ 5 }; // define integer variable x, initialized with value 5
    std::cout << x; // print value of x (5) to console
    return 0;
}
```
This produces the result: 

``` 
5
```

To print more than one thing on the same line, the insertion operator (`<<`) can be used multiple times in a single statement to concatenate (link together) multiple pieces of output. For example:

```cpp
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hello" << " world!";
    return 0;
}
```

Copy

This uses the `<<` operator twice, first to output `Hello` and then to output `world`.
```
Hello world!
``` 


Tips  :  It might be  helpful  to image the >> and << operator as conveyor belt that move data from  one end to another bases on the direction . In this cases , when the content is convey to std::count , it get output 
```
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    int x{ 5 };
    std::cout << "x is equal to: " << x;
    return 0;
}
```
Using `std::endl` to output a newline

What would you expect this program to print?

```cpp
#include <iostream> // for std::cout

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hi!";
    std::cout << "My name is Alex.";
    return 0;
}
```

Copy

You might be surprised at the result:

Hi!My name is Alex.

Separate output statements don’t result in separate lines of output on the console.
If we want the cursor to position in a sperate line we need the console to tell  the cursor to  move to the next line . A newline is an OS specific character or sequence of character that move the cursor to the start of the next line 

One way too output a newline is to output `std::endl` (which stands for “end line”):  
```
#include <iostream> // for std::cout and std::endl

int main()
{
    std::cout << "Hi!" << std::endl; // std::endl will cause the cursor to move to the next line
    std::cout << "My name is Alex." << std::endl;

    return 0;
}
```
this print : 
Hi!
My name is Alex. 
Tip : In the above program, the second `std::endl` isn’t technically necessary, since the program ends immediately afterward. However, it serves a few useful purposes.

First, it helps indicate that the line of output is a “complete thought” (as opposed to partial output that is completed somewhere later in the code). In this sense, it functions similarly to using a period in standard English.

Second, it positions the cursor on the next line, so that if we later add additional lines of output (e.g. have the program say “bye!”), those lines will appear where we expect (rather than appended to the prior line of output).

Third, after running an executable from the command line, some operating systems do not output a new line before showing the command prompt again. If our program does not end with the cursor on a new line, the command prompt may appear appended to the prior line of output, rather than at the start of a new line as the user would expect.

## `std::cout` is buffered 
Consider a roller coaster ride  at your favorite amusement park  . Passenger show up to get in line , a train then arrive and broad the passenger up (up to the maximum capacity of the train ) . When maximum capacity have been reach and a train depart with batch of passenger . The remaining  passenger will have to wait for the next train to arrive 
This example is similar to how std::count operate in C++ .  statement in our program request that output be send to the console . However , that output is not send to the console directly . Instead , it is store in an intermediate call the buffer zone , a region of memory set aside to collect suck request . Periodically, the buffer is flushed , meaning all the data in the buffer is transferred to its destination 
author note :  To use another analogy, flushing a buffer is kind of like flushing a toilet. All of your collected “output” is transferred to … wherever it goes next. Eew.  
## key insight 
the opposite of buffered  output is unbuffered output  . With  unbuffered output , each individual  output request  is sent directly  to the output device   

Writing data to buffer is typically fast  ,  whereas  transferring a batch of data to an output devices is comparatively slow . Buffering  can increase performance by batching multiple output request together to minimize the number of time  output have to be send to the output devices 

## `std::endl` vs `\n` 
