

# definition 
unlike some programming languages ,  C / C++  does not automatically  initialize most variables to given value ( suck as zero ) .. When  a variable  that is not initialized is given  a memory  address to use to store data  , the default value of a variable is whatever (garbage) value happend to already be in that memory address  


# Nomenclature 
many reader expect the terms "initialized  " and "uninitialized " to be strict opposite  ,but they aren't quite  in commned language  , "initialized" mean that the object was provided with a initialized value at the point of definition . therefor ,  an object that is  not initialized but  assign a  value is no longer "uninitialized" ( because it is given a known value ) 
To recap : 
- Initialized = The object is given  a known value at the point of definition . 
- Assignment : the object is given a know value beyond the point of definition 
- uninitialized :  The object have not been given a known value yet  
```cpp
int x;
```

In lesson [[1.4 — Variable assignment and initialization]] , we noted that when no initializer is provided, the variable is default-initialized. In most cases (such as this one), default-initialization performs no actual initialization. Thus we’d say `x` is uninitialized. We’re focused on the outcome (the object has not been given a known value), not the process.


## as an aside 
This lack of initialization is performance optimization in C , back then  computer were slow   . Image  a case where you were going to read 100000 files . In suck cases , you might create 100000 variable then fill them with data from the file 
if you were to initialize all those variable you will end up with 100000 initialized value 
for now , you should always initialized your value , because the cost of doing so is minuscule compare to the benefit  

```
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
    // define an integer variable named x
    int x; // this variable is uninitialized because we haven't given it a value

    // print the value of x to the screen
    std::cout << x << '\n'; // who knows what we'll get, because x is uninitialized

    return 0;
}
```

In this cases the computer will assign some unused memory to x  .  
there are cases where your computer will output the same result or bases on your compiler will give you an error 

## undefined  behavior 
Using the value from  an uninitialized variables is our first example of undefined behavior. Undefined behavior is the result of executing code whose behavior is not well defined in the C++  language . In this case , the C++ language  doesn't have any rules determining what happend if you used the value of a variable that has not been given a known value .  
Code implementing undefine baehavior may exhibit any of the following symptoms : 
- Your program produces different results every time it is run.
- Your program consistently produces the same incorrect result.
- Your program behaves inconsistently (sometimes produces the correct result, sometimes not).
- Your program seems like it’s working but produces incorrect results later in the program.
- Your program crashes, either immediately or later.
- Your program works on some compilers but not others.
- Your program works until you change some other seemingly unrelated code. 

## implementation-defined behavior  and unspecified behavior 
A specific compiler and the specific library that come with are called an implementation ( as these are actually implement the C++ language ) . In some cases the C++  implementation allows the implementation to determine how some aspect of the language will behave , so that the compiler can choose a behavior that is efficient for a given platform . Behavior that is define by the implementation is called the  **implementation-defined behavior** . Implementation  defined  behavior much be documented and consistent for a given implementation 
```
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
	std::cout << sizeof(int) << '\n'; // print how many bytes of memory an int value takes

	return 0;
}
```
on most plat form this will produce 4 but on others it may produce 2  . 


**Unspecified behavior** is almost identical to implementation-defined behavior in that the behavior is left up to the implementation to define, but the implementation is not required to document the behavior.

We generally want to avoid implementation-defined and unspecified behavior, as it means our program may not work as expected if compiled on a different compiler (or even on the same compiler if we change project settings that affect how the implementation behaves!) 

Best practice 
avoid implementation-defined and unspecified behavior whenever possible , as they may cause your program to malfunction on other implementation 


Question #1

What is an uninitialized variable? Why should you avoid using them?

Hide Solution

An uninitialized variable is a variable that has not been given a value by the program (generally through initialization or assignment). Using the value stored in an uninitialized variable will result in undefined behavior.

Question #2

What is undefined behavior, and what can happen if you do something that exhibits undefined behavior?

Hide Solution

Undefined behavior is the result of executing code whose behavior is not well defined by the language. The result can be almost anything, including something that behaves correctly.